Codeless Web Automation Framework

Description

This Codeless Web Automation Framework is a cutting-edge solution uniquely designed to simplify the testing process. Utilizing a robust stack of technologies including Java, Selenium, Cucumber, TestNG, Maven, and Extent Reports, it offers an innovative approach to web testing.

Key Features

Codeless Test Case Creation: Users can write test cases directly in feature files and manage element locators in a centralized .yaml file, significantly reducing the need for coding.

Reusable Step Definitions: Generic step definitions handle a wide range of elements and scenarios, enhancing reusability and reducing script redundancy.

WebElement Utilities: The WebElementUtils class provides actions like clicking, entering text, selecting from dropdowns, handling tables, navigating through different types of calendars/date pickers, etc. It robustly handles exceptions and logs errors.

XPath Management via YAML Files: Centralized XPath management in .yaml files ensures easy maintenance and updates.

Behavior-Driven Development (BDD) Approach: Leveraging Cucumber, this framework supports BDD for user-focused and readable test cases.

Extensive Reporting: Integrated with Extent Reports for detailed and informative test reports.

Flexibility and Scalability: Adaptable and scalable to various types of web applications and large test suites.

Simplicity and User-Friendliness: Designed for accessibility, especially for non-technical users or teams new to automated testing.


Getting Started

Cloning the Repository:
To get started with the NoCodeCucumberWebFlow framework, first, you'll need to clone the repository from GitHub. You can do this by running the following command in your terminal:
git clone https://github.com/roshangit23/NoCodeCucumberWebFlow.git
This will download the entire framework to your local machine.

Running a Test Suite:
f
1)Navigate to the Project Directory: After cloning, navigate to the project directory in your terminal or command prompt.

2)Running Tests: To run the test suite, use Maven to execute the TestRunner class. You can do this by running the following command in the root directory of the project: mvn test OR run the TestRunner class directly from your code editor.
The TestRunner class is set up with CucumberOptions to specify the features path and glue code location, along with the plugin for Extent Reports.

3)Viewing Reports: After the tests have run, you can find the test reports in the test-output folder at the project root. These reports are generated by Extent Reports and provide detailed insights into the test execution along with screenshots.

4)Feature Files: The test cases are written in feature files located at src/test/resources/features. These feature files use the Gherkin syntax and are linked to step definitions for execution.

5)Writing Feature Files: When writing feature files, utilize the existing generic step definitions which cover a variety of use cases. If your use case is not covered, consider contributing by writing a new generic step definition that can be reused for similar scenarios.

Conclusion

This framework is a comprehensive, codeless solution for efficient, accessible, and maintainable web automation. It caters to teams seeking automated testing with minimal coding effort.
